Add documentation for .NET runtime metrics (#9397)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/runtime_metrics/dotnet.md

---
title: .NET Runtime Metrics
kind: documentation
description: "Gain additional insights into your .NET application's performance with the runtime metrics associated to your traces."
further_reading:
    - link: 'tracing/connect_logs_and_traces'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Connect your Logs and Traces together'
    - link: 'tracing/manual_instrumentation'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Manually instrument your application to create traces.'
    - link: 'tracing/opentracing'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Implement Opentracing across your applications.'
    - link: 'tracing/visualization/'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Explore your services, resources, and traces'
---

## Automatic Configuration

> Runtime metrics collection can be enabled in .NET Tracer 1.22.0+ with the `DD_RUNTIME_METRICS_ENABLED=true` environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable runtime metrics collection in the .NET Tracer 1.22.0+ with the `DD_RUNTIME_METRICS_ENABLED=true` environment variable.
```

> View runtime metrics in correlation with your .NET services. See the [Service page][1] in Datadog.

Reviewer 2: To maintain consistent wording as other language pages:

```suggestion
Runtime metrics can be viewed in correlation with your .NET services. See the [Service page][1] in Datadog.
```

Reviewer 2: I just realized that this was recommended by @apigirl . The text `View runtime metrics in correlation with your .NET services. See the [Service page][1] in Datadog.` aligns with the text for the other languages. Which text should we use across languages? I have opened a new PR to add more consistency across the language's runtime metrics pages: #9492

Reviewer 2: That PR has been merged already, but I can open a new PR for standardizing text across the languages

> Runtime metrics can be viewed in correlation with your .NET services. See the [Service page][1] in Datadog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
View runtime metrics in correlation with your .NET services. See the [Service page][1] in Datadog.
```

Along with displaying these metrics in your APM Service Page, Datadog provides a [default .NET Runtime Dashboard][6] with the `service` and `runtime-id` tags that are applied to these metrics.

##  Additional permissions for IIS

On .NET Framework, metrics are collected using performance counters. Users in non-interactive logon sessions (that includes IIS application pool accounts and some service accounts) must be added to the **Performance Monitoring Users** group to access counter data.

> IIS application pools use special accounts that do not appear in the list of users. To add them to the Performance Monitoring Users group, look for `IIS APPPOOL\<name of the pool>`. For instance, the user for the DefaultAppPool would be `IIS APPPOOL\DefaultAppPool`.

Reviewer 3: Is it worth being more explicit exactly how to do this, e.g. _how_ do I add a user to a user group? If that's outside the scope of our documentation, could we link somewhere?
